# Introduction to Notebook

This is a personal notebook written when reading papers on LLM, ranging from model architecture, fine-tuning, agent, *RAG, memory system(which mainly belong to agent but also involve other sections)*.  

## Structure  

**Notebook Structure**

The structure of notebook is designed as a **graph**, where each node is a *paper* or a *conclusive knowledge patch(e.g. word2vec)*. Every node will be linked to other nodes in the following two ways:  
1. **study timeline pointer**: The timeline I read all the papers. The previous paper usually contain some prerequisites to the later ones. Since I asked AI to plan the reading route according to the dependency between different papers, the sub-graph connected by timeline pointer(timeline graph) generally formed a DAG, following which you are assumably to encounter less obstacles while reading these complicated papers. **timeline pointer are explicitly given in the header of each note.**  	
2. **relevance pointer**: This pointer exits when I associate something in a new paper to that in previous ones, or when I come up which a new problem that might be solved in a future-to-read paper. **relevance pointer always exits inside the note.**  

**Note Structure**

The structures note pieces(usually a *.md*) are always not the same, following a casual mindflow. But their containing sections can be generally concluded as following:  
1. **note header**: Exists at the beginning of each note. Marking the citation of original paper(reference to its web space), reading time and the timeline pointer.  
2. **mindflow**: In not fixed format. Just some *taking-downs* of minds that spring up when going through the paper.  
3. ***items***: Usually something important in the paper. It's general. You will recognize them once you encounter them.  
4. **worth noticing**: Something less important in the paper, but somehow inspires or catches my attention.  
5. **Unauthorized Understanding**: Some intutive explaination to certain designs, from mathametic, algorithm, computation and so on respects. Usually do not prove its sufficiency. Often comes from personal interpretion and web pages.  

## Tags

I have used "#" tag format which is supported by obsidian in my notes. There are currently two types of tags in my notebook:
1. **Field Tag**: This kind of tag only exists right at the beginning of every note. They mark the direction of the paper in this note, like #architecture, #agent... It's designed to give a quick orientation of the paper you are about to read.  
2. **LazyTag**: This tag can exist anywhere in a note, marking an interesting or potentially meaningful knowledge which I currently have no extra time to dive into. Via #lazytag, one can easily call them back when having vacancy to study one of them.  
3. **Quick Hop Tag**: This is a tag existing inside a note, with the format: *QuickHop-XXX* . It's designed to help you quick jump to the exact in-note position of a small piece of information.  *(For example, tag* #QuickHop-RoPE *helps you jump to the exact beginning position of section RoPE in note [[Roformer-Enhanced Transformer With Rotary Position Embedding]], skipping the intro and review part.)*  
4. **AIGC**: This tag exits only right after a title or a subtitle, meaning that the content in range of this title or subtitle is generated by AI and that attention on its authority needs to be paid while reading. *Usually AI will only be used to generate content on deterministic fields such as certain ground truth in mathametics.* 